Becoming a core collaborator is a hard and arduous process. Most times, it
requires the existing core collaborator(s) to get to know and deeply trust
you. They often want to see you exhibit empathy, competence, and an ability
to collaborate in improving the project. Below are some guidelines that seem
to be fairly common.


Guidelines
----------

**tl;dr**:

1. Collaborate
2. Consistently
3. Constructively
4. Respectfully

Collaborators must always follow the Code of Conduct, model the expected
behaviour, and be willing to correct others (including other core
collaborators) when they violate the CoC.

Collaborators need to consistently (not necessarily daily)
help triage issues (See triaging issues below).

Collaborators need to consistently provide constructive code review for other
collaborators and should be willing to help new collaborators in a welcoming
and inclusive manner.

Collaborators should occasionally submit changes of their own. Changes can
include documentation, packaging, tests, and code.

Collaborators who follow the Code of Conduct and do the rest of what's
described *may* be invited to join the team of collaborators who can close
issues and accept changes. If a collaborator feels they have made significant
contributions and have been slighted or ignored, they should feel comfortable
approaching other core collaborators to understand why they have not yet been
invited.

When we say **consistently** we mean, you should exhibit participation that is
regular, frequent, and recognizable. Let's create an example, let's say you
start collaborating on FizzBuzz in March. If you follow the CoC, comment on a
large number of issues and pull requests for several months, and submit your
own changes, you will probably have earned sufficient trust and recognition.
For some maintainers, it may take less time, for others more. This is
inherently a hard to define or measure thing.


Issue Triage
------------

**tl;dr**:

1. Read
2. Reproduce
3. Reply
4. Repeat (as necessary)

Collaborators with enough time can be extremely helpful to other collaborators
by *ensuring all the information required for a complete bug report is
provided*. Bug reporters occasionally ignore or forget pieces of information
that can help us fix their issue faster. If you notice that information is
missing, please gently ask them to provide it.

Further, those collaborators with time should attempt to *reproduce the
reported behaviour* if it does sound like a bug. The results of your
experiment are **always** good to have along with detailed instructions that
you write down for collaborators who come later. If you're a collaborator
with access to an operating system like Windows, your help in reproducing
issues will be greatly valued. Some of the core collaborators do not have
access to Windows and cannot afford to obtain access.

As most collaborators will likely also be users, they can help determine the
severity/priority of an issue. In some cases, they may also be able to help
determine temporary ways to work around an issue until a fix is created and
released.


"Code" Review
-------------

**tl;dr**:

1. Read
2. Run
3. Reply
4. Repeat (as necessary)

Collaborators should all feel *comfortable and confident* in *reading* diffs
of submitted changes. Further, collaborators should realize the *value* of
asking questions respectfully in change requests. If you're curious why the
other collaborator did something a certain way, or what they're trying to
accomplish, asking those questions can point out things to other core
collaborators. *Communication about a change is important* as it can
potentially cause a new bug (or regress existing behaviour) while trying to
fix something else. **Collaborators will never scold another collaborator
for asking a question.**

If the code passes a *visual inspection* and the collaborator has time, they
should download the change and inspect it locally. If it is a documentation
change, building and viewing the documentation would be immensely valuable. If
it is a code change, verifying the program's behaviour does not change
(possibly beyond tests) is also valuable.

Collaborators reviewing changes should **always** reply that they've reviewed
changes and explain how they reviewed them as well as their opinion of the
changes (if they have formed one already). **Words of encouragement to the
collaborator submitting the change are always welcome.** Collaborators should
also feel free to use as many emoji as they like.
